Implement automatic addition of editors to the context menu of the corpus structure editor (#53)
hexatomic/hexatomic: docs/dev/src/development/add-new-editor.md

# Adding a new editor

Editors should be part of bundles in the `bundles` directory of the project.
You can either create a new bundle or add an editor to an existing bundle project.
In Eclipse 4, additions to the user interface are organized in so-called [Parts](http://web.archive.org/web/20190807184652/https://www.vogella.com/tutorials/EclipseRCP/article.html#parts).
A part consists of two components:
- a `PartDescriptor` entry in the `fragment.e4xmi` file, and 
- the actual Java class implementing the behavior

## Adding a minimal Java class

Add a Java class to your bundle-project.

> This class does not need to inherit any interface, but should have a method with the `@PostConstruct` annotation.

Author: Should be explained by the linked documentation for `Part`

```java
public class TextViewer {
	@PostConstruct
	public void postConstruct(Composite parent, MPart part, ProjectManager projectManager) { 
		// TODO: add actual implementation
	}
}
```
This example injects the SWT `parent` composite which can be used to construct user interface elements and the `part` parameter, which describes the application model for this part.
The `projectManager` is an Hexatomic specific services that gives access to the global Salt project which is currently loaded.

> SWT stands for "Standard Widget Toolkit" and is used as user interface widget toolkit in this example.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Remove content included above (via suggestion).

You can directly add the SWT instructions to define your user interface or the the [Eclipse Window Builder](https://www.eclipse.org/windowbuilder/) for a graphical editor.

> ## Add part to application model

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Adding a part to the application model
```

Fix style to be the same as in other headings

To add the newly created class to the Eclipse RCP 4 application model, open the `fragment.e4xmi` file of the existing bundle or create a new one with `File -> New -> Other` menu and choosing "New Model Fragment".

![Adding a new fragment model file](./new-model-fragment-file.png)

In the fragment editor, add a new model fragment by selecting "Model fragments" and clicking on the "Add" button.

![Adding a new model fragment in the editor](./new-model-fragment.png)

Edit the model fragment properties by selecting the newly created entry.
Make sure to the the extended element ID to `xpath:/`and the feature name to `descriptors` (1).

> This means that the model fragment extends the part descriptors of the application.

Author: We could link to the section in the Blog entry describing part descriptors, as we did in the first paragraph with `Part`. There is already some description about the relation between the part descriptor and the part code in the first paragraph as well.

Then, add a new part descriptor with the `Add` button (2). 

![Edit model fragment properties](./add-model-fragment-descriptor.png)

> Select the new part descriptor in the model fragment editor and you can edit several properties, like the caption of the part or an icon.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Select the new part descriptor in the model fragment editor and you can edit several properties, such as the caption of the part, or an icon.
```

Fix style/wording. "such as" has a more explicit meaning of "exemplary" than "like".

> Make sure to set the "Class URI" field to the newly created editor class.

Reviewer: Also applies to other content above and elsewhere in the docs: style of names of elements in the UI. I think *Class URI* or even **Class URI** would make this more readable. Solution postponed to when we deal with enforcing docs style.

Author: Because this is a term or because this is a label/field in a form?

You can use the "Find" button to navigate the workspace and insert the proper value.

> Also, the "Category" should be set to `org.corpus_tools.hexatomic.tag.editor` to mark that this part is an Hexatomic editor. 

Author: Yes, its a requirement. We might add more categories (e.g. for the console) and these could also seen as "Hexatomic Editor", but for now this is true.

> The `Label`field will be used as a name for the editor, e.g. when the user has a selection of editors to choose from for opening a document.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `Label` field will be used as a name for the editor, for example in a menu from which the user will choose one of the editors available to open a document with.
```

Add missing whitespace, make stylistic changes.

![Part descriptor general properties](./part-descriptor-class.png)

> ## Get the associated Salt document to display

Author: I would argue that "selected" is not correct.. The selected document can change any time and the editor still needs to render is associated document after another document was selected and e.g. thereafter the Salt model changed. 

For developer documentation, precise terms are important and "selected" would be misguiding (and as such the whole document gets more difficult to understand). I changed the "Get" -> "Getting" in 3426230441170918b097efbe9559a05f14f9ede8
